# What is ktr1 tool?

The ktr1 tool is my first libraly for RPG Maker/RGGS3/Ruby environment. It will support some typical functions in hack'n slash game, like Diablo, Torchlight, or Borderlands series.

I will develop a small sample game step by step, to brush up this tool.

# Rare items

At the first step, I will add a Rare item function which based on my [2014/06 My 1st study](201406-1st-study.md "2014/06 My 1st study") codes.

## Item colors

This is a simple extension, which uses the memo area of item. For example, a rare item has "&lt;R&gt;" string in its the memo area (note attribute of item). So the rare item name will be shown in Yellow color.

The rule of item color is simple, "&lt;[A-Z]&gt;" string in memo area has each specific color. For the rare item system, at least, the following colors are defined.

* E - Epic item - Purple (13)
* K - Key item - Red (18)
* L - Legendary/Unique item - Orange (20)
* M - Magic item - Blue (12)
* R - Rare item - Yellow (14)
* S - Set item - Light green (03)
* U - Uncommon item - Green (11)

The rarelity of type is Legendary > Epic > Rare > Magic > Uncommon > normal.

Key is a special item for the story, so it should not be availavle in other game. The system should egnore the unknown key items in save data.

Unique item looks like Legendary, is also very rare, but maybe is not so　strong. For example, you can make "Father's knife" as a unique item, is not so strong, but have an impressive effect in the story.

## The Code for Item colors

This code include not only rare color (e.g. <R> is Yellow) but also direct color set mode (e.g. <TC17> is Yellow).

    $ktr1_data ||= {}
    $ktr1_data[:ktr1_item_color] = {"E"=>13,"K"=>18,"L"=>20,"M"=>16,"R"=>14,"S"=>3,"U"=>11}

    class Window_Base < Window
      alias ktr1_draw_item_name draw_item_name
      def draw_item_name(item, x, y, enabled = true, width = 172)
        return unless item
        if item.note =~ /<([A-Z])>/
          draw_icon(item.icon_index, x, y, enabled)
          change_color(text_color($ktr1_data[:ktr1_item_color][$1]), enabled)
          draw_text(x + 24, y, width, line_height, item.name)
        if item.note =~ /<(TC[0-3]\d)>/
          draw_icon(item.icon_index, x, y, enabled)
          change_color(text_color($1.to_i), enabled)
          draw_text(x + 24, y, width, line_height, item.name)
        else
          ktr1_draw_item_name(item, x, y, enabled, width)
        end
      end
    end

## The Code for Message Text

In addition, I will add some supprt control codes in Message text.

* \II[n] - icon and colored item name of item #n
* \WI[n] - icon and colored item name of weapon #n
* \AI[n] - icon and colored item name of armour #n

The code is simple, but a little bit long...

    class Window_Base < Window
      alias ktr1_convert_escape_characters convert_escape_characters
      def convert_escape_characters(text)
        result = ktr1_convert_escape_characters(text)
        result.gsub!(/\eII\[(\d+)\]/i) {
          item = $data_items[$1.to_i]
          if item
            if item.note =~ /<([A-Z])>/
              "\eI[#{item.icon_index}]\eC[#{$ktr1_data[:ktr1_item_color][$1]}]#{item.name}\eC[0]"
            elsif item.note =~ /<TC([0-3]\d)>/
              "\eI[#{item.icon_index}]\eC[#{$1}]#{item.name}\eC[0]"
            else
              "\eI[#{item.icon_index}]#{item.name}"
            end
          else
            ""
          end
        }
        result.gsub!(/\eWI\[(\d+)\]/i) {
          item = $data_weapons[$1.to_i]
          if item
            if item.note =~ /<([A-Z])>/
              "\eI[#{item.icon_index}]\eC[#{$ktr1_data[:ktr1_item_color][$1]}]#{item.name}\eC[0]"
            elsif item.note =~ /<TC([0-3]\d)>/
              "\eI[#{item.icon_index}]\eC[#{$1}]#{item.name}\eC[0]"
            else
              "\eI[#{item.icon_index}]#{item.name}"
            end
          else
            ""
          end
        }
        result.gsub!(/\eAI\[(\d+)\]/i) {
          item = $data_armors[$1.to_i]
          if item
            if item.note =~ /<([A-Z])>/
              "\eI[#{item.icon_index}]\eC[#{$ktr1_data[:ktr1_item_color][$1]}]#{item.name}\eC[0]"
            elsif item.note =~ /<TC([0-3]\d)>/
              "\eI[#{item.icon_index}]\eC[#{$1}]#{item.name}\eC[0]"
            else
              "\eI[#{item.icon_index}]#{item.name}"
            end
          else
            ""
          end
        }
        result
      end
    end

## Uncountable items

Next, I add a Uncountable item function which based on my [2014/06 My 1st study](201406-1st-study.md "2014/06 My 1st study") codes. In this case, I use shorter "&lt;UC&gt;" string, in place of "&lt;UNCOUNTABLE&gt;"

## The Code for Uncountable items

    class Window_ItemList < Window_Selectable
      alias ktr1_draw_item_number draw_item_number
      def draw_item_number(rect, item)
        ktr1_draw_item_number(rect, item) unless item.note.include?("<UC>")
      end
    end

# Original save data

To update the game system, we need to enhance save data format to store more information.

## The code to keep original information

At first, keep necessary system data for future enhance.

    module DataManager
      instance_eval{alias ktr1_load_normal_database load_normal_database}
      def self.load_normal_database
        ktr1_load_normal_database
        $ktr1_data[:weapons_max] = $data_weapons.length
        $ktr1_data[:armors_max] = $data_armors.length
        $ktr1_data[:items_max] = $data_items.length
      end
    end

## The code to load data

Next, I add a simple function to load addtional Weapon data. This version can't adapt the update of original Weapon data.

    module DataManager
      instance_eval{alias ktr1_extract_save_contents extract_save_contents}
      def self.extract_save_contents(contents)
        ktr1_extract_save_contents(contents)
        $ktr1_save = contents[:ktr1] || {}
        extract_save_ktr1
      end

      def self.extract_save_ktr1
        contents = $ktr1_save[:weapons] || []
        contents.each{|item|
          if item.id < $ktr1_data[:weapons_max]
            msgbox("KTR1: Save data version is different")
            exit
          end
          $data_weapons[item.id] = item if item && item.id
        }
      end
    end

## The code to save data

The following code is also a simple code to save addtional Weapon data.

    module DataManager
      instance_eval{alias ktr1_make_save_contents make_save_contents}
      def self.make_save_contents
        contents = ktr1_make_save_contents
        make_save_ktr1
        contents[:ktr1] = $ktr1_save if $ktr1_save
        contents
      end

      def self.make_save_ktr1
        contents = []
        $data_weapons.each{|item|
          contents.push(item) if item && item.id >= $ktr1_data[:weapons_max]
        }
        $ktr1_save[:weapons] = contents
        $ktr1_save[:weapons_max] = $ktr1_data[:weapons_max]
      end
    end

## Test code

You can try to add new Weapon item dinamically with following test code.

    m = $ktr1_data[:weapons_max]
    $data_weapons[m] = $data_weapons[1].clone
    $data_weapons[m].id = m
    $data_weapons[m].name += " of Fire"
    $game_party.gain_item($data_weapons[m], 1)

 You can copy and paste this code into an event object. When your character hit the event, he will get a new Weapon, like "Hand Ax of Fire".

 You can also test it can be saved, and keep it after re-load the game.
